docs/guide/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing

Thank you for considering contributing to Grithub! This guide will help you get started.

## Code of Conduct

Be respectful and constructive in all interactions. We aim to create a welcoming environment for contributors of all backgrounds.

## How to Contribute

There are many ways to contribute:

### Report Bugs

Found a bug? [Open an issue](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/issues/new) with:

- Clear title and description
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Your environment (OS, Node version, etc.)
- Screenshots if applicable

**Example:**

```markdown
**Bug:** Issues command fails with authentication error

**Steps to reproduce:**

1. Run `grithub login`
2. Run `grithub issues`
3. See error: "Authentication failed"

**Expected:** Should show list of issues

**Environment:**

- OS: macOS 14.2
- Node: 18.19.0
- Grithub: 0.1.6
```

### Suggest Features

Have an idea? [Open a feature request](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/issues/new) with:

- Clear use case
- Proposed solution
- Alternative approaches considered
- Willingness to implement

**Example:**

```markdown
**Feature:** Add support for GitHub Discussions

**Use case:** Teams using Discussions want CLI management

**Proposed solution:**

- Add `grithub discussions` command
- Support CRUD operations
- Enable bulk operations

**Alternatives:**

- Use GitHub CLI (lacks bulk operations)
- Manual API calls (not user-friendly)

**Implementation:** I can implement this if approved
```

### Improve Documentation

Documentation is crucial! You can:

- Fix typos or unclear explanations
- Add examples or use cases
- Improve code samples
- Translate to other languages

Documentation lives in `docs/`:

```bash
# Start docs server
pnpm docs:dev

# Edit markdown files
vi docs/guide/getting-started.md

# Preview changes at http://localhost:5173
```

### Write Code

Ready to code? Follow this workflow:

## Development Workflow

### 1. Fork Repository

Click "Fork" on [GitHub](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub)

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/grithub.git
cd grithub
```

### 3. Add Upstream Remote

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/toneflix/grithub.git
```

### 4. Create Branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/my-feature
```

Branch naming:

- `feature/` - New features
- `fix/` - Bug fixes
- `docs/` - Documentation
- `refactor/` - Code refactoring
- `test/` - Test additions/fixes

### 5. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

### 6. Make Changes

Edit files in `src/`:

```typescript
// Example: src/Commands/MyCommand.ts
import { Command } from '@h3ravel/musket';

export class MyCommand extends Command {
  protected signature = 'my-command';
  protected description = 'My new command';

  async handle() {
    this.info('Hello, Grithub!');
  }
}
```

### 7. Test Changes

```bash
# Run in development
pnpm runner my-command

# Run tests
pnpm test

# Lint code
pnpm lint
```

### 8. Commit Changes

Use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/):

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add my-command"
```

Commit types:

- `feat:` - New feature
- `fix:` - Bug fix
- `docs:` - Documentation
- `style:` - Formatting
- `refactor:` - Code refactoring
- `test:` - Tests
- `chore:` - Maintenance

**Examples:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add bulk delete for pull requests"
git commit -m "fix: resolve authentication timeout issue"
git commit -m "docs: update installation instructions"
git commit -m "refactor: simplify issue parsing logic"
```

### 9. Push Changes

```bash
git push origin feature/my-feature
```

### 10. Create Pull Request

Go to GitHub and click "Compare & pull request"

**PR Template:**

```markdown
## Description

Brief description of changes

## Type of Change

- [ ] Bug fix
- [ ] New feature
- [ ] Breaking change
- [ ] Documentation update

## Testing

How was this tested?

## Checklist

- [ ] Code follows project style
- [ ] Tests pass
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or documented)
```

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style

#### TypeScript

Use strict typing:

```typescript
// Good
function getIssue(number: number): Promise<IIssue> {
  return octokit.rest.issues.get({ number });
}

// Avoid
function getIssue(number: any): any {
  return octokit.rest.issues.get({ number });
}
```

#### Naming Conventions

```typescript
// Classes: PascalCase
class IssuesCommand extends Command {}

// Functions/Variables: camelCase
function parseIssue(data: any) {}
const issueNumber = 42;

// Constants: UPPER_SNAKE_CASE
const MAX_RETRIES = 3;

// Interfaces: PascalCase with I prefix
interface IUser {
  name: string;
  email: string;
}
```

#### File Structure

```typescript
// Imports first
import { Command } from '@h3ravel/musket';
import { useOctokit } from '../hooks';
import type { IIssue } from '../Contracts/Interfaces';

// Class/function definition
export class MyCommand extends Command {
  // Class implementation
}

// No default export for classes
// Use named exports
```

### Error Handling

Always handle errors gracefully:

```typescript
import { promiseWrapper } from '../helpers';

const [err, result] = await promiseWrapper(
  octokit.rest.issues.create({
    /* ... */
  }),
);

if (err) {
  this.error(`Failed to create issue: ${err.message}`);
  return;
}

this.success(`Issue #${result.data.number} created`);
```

### User Feedback

Provide clear feedback:

```typescript
// Use spinners for operations
const spinner = this.spinner('Creating issue...').start();

try {
  await createIssue();
  spinner.succeed('Issue created successfully');
} catch (error) {
  spinner.fail('Failed to create issue');
  this.error(error.message);
}

// Use appropriate log levels
this.info('Information message');
this.success('Success message');
this.warn('Warning message');
this.error('Error message');
```

### Testing

Write tests for new features:

```typescript
// tests/my-feature.spec.ts
import { describe, it, expect } from 'vitest';
import { myFunction } from '../src/my-feature';

describe('myFunction', () => {
  it('should return expected result', () => {
    const result = myFunction('input');
    expect(result).toBe('expected');
  });

  it('should handle edge cases', () => {
    expect(myFunction('')).toBe('');
    expect(myFunction(null)).toBeUndefined();
  });
});
```

### Documentation

Document all public APIs:

```typescript
/**
 * Creates an issue in the specified repository.
 *
 * @param owner - Repository owner
 * @param repo - Repository name
 * @param title - Issue title
 * @param body - Issue description
 * @returns Created issue object
 * @throws {Error} If authentication fails
 */
async function createIssue(
  owner: string,
  repo: string,
  title: string,
  body?: string,
): Promise<IIssue> {
  // Implementation
}
```

## Pull Request Guidelines

### Before Submitting

Checklist:

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] All tests pass: `pnpm test`
- [ ] Lint passes: `pnpm lint`
- [ ] Build succeeds: `pnpm build`
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] Commit messages follow conventions
- [ ] Branch is up to date with main

### PR Description

Include:

1. **What** - What does this PR do?
2. **Why** - Why is this change needed?
3. **How** - How does it work?
4. **Testing** - How was it tested?
5. **Screenshots** - If UI changes

### Review Process

1. **Automated Checks** - CI runs tests and linting
2. **Code Review** - Maintainer reviews code
3. **Feedback** - Address review comments
4. **Approval** - PR approved for merge
5. **Merge** - Squash and merge to main

### After Merge

Your contribution will be:

- Included in next release
- Listed in changelog
- Credited in release notes

## First Time Contributors

New to open source? Look for issues labeled:

- `good first issue` - Easy entry points
- `help wanted` - Contributions welcome
- `documentation` - Docs improvements

Don't hesitate to ask questions!

## Getting Help

### Questions

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/discussions)
- Ask in [Issues](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/issues)

### Stuck?

- Review [Development Guide](/guide/development)
- Check existing [Pull Requests](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/pulls)
- Read [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/rest)

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the ISC License.

## Recognition

Contributors are recognized:

- In release notes
- In changelog
- On GitHub contributors page

Thank you for contributing to Grithub! 🎉

## Next Steps

- [Development Guide](/guide/development) - Set up development environment
- [Commands](/guide/commands) - Learn command structure
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/toneflix/grithub/issues) - Find issues to work on

Commit message:

Rename Grithub to Ghit throughout the documentation, including command references, installation instructions, and configuration details. Update links to the GitHub repository and ensure consistency in terminology across all guides and sections.

docs/guide/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing

Thank you for considering contributing to Ghit! This guide will help you get started.

## Code of Conduct

Be respectful and constructive in all interactions. We aim to create a welcoming environment for contributors of all backgrounds.

## How to Contribute

There are many ways to contribute:

### Report Bugs

Found a bug? [Open an issue](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/issues/new) with:

- Clear title and description
- Steps to reproduce
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Your environment (OS, Node version, etc.)
- Screenshots if applicable

**Example:**

```markdown
**Bug:** Issues command fails with authentication error

**Steps to reproduce:**

1. Run `ghit login`
2. Run `ghit issues`
3. See error: "Authentication failed"

**Expected:** Should show list of issues

**Environment:**

- OS: macOS 14.2
- Node: 18.19.0
- Ghit: 0.1.6
```

### Suggest Features

Have an idea? [Open a feature request](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/issues/new) with:

- Clear use case
- Proposed solution
- Alternative approaches considered
- Willingness to implement

**Example:**

```markdown
**Feature:** Add support for GitHub Discussions

**Use case:** Teams using Discussions want CLI management

**Proposed solution:**

- Add `ghit discussions` command
- Support CRUD operations
- Enable bulk operations

**Alternatives:**

- Use GitHub CLI (lacks bulk operations)
- Manual API calls (not user-friendly)

**Implementation:** I can implement this if approved
```

### Improve Documentation

Documentation is crucial! You can:

- Fix typos or unclear explanations
- Add examples or use cases
- Improve code samples
- Translate to other languages

Documentation lives in `docs/`:

```bash
# Start docs server
pnpm docs:dev

# Edit markdown files
vi docs/guide/getting-started.md

# Preview changes at http://localhost:5173
```

### Write Code

Ready to code? Follow this workflow:

## Development Workflow

### 1. Fork Repository

Click "Fork" on [GitHub](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit)

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ghit.git
cd ghit
```

### 3. Add Upstream Remote

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/toneflix/ghit.git
```

### 4. Create Branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/my-feature
```

Branch naming:

- `feature/` - New features
- `fix/` - Bug fixes
- `docs/` - Documentation
- `refactor/` - Code refactoring
- `test/` - Test additions/fixes

### 5. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

### 6. Make Changes

Edit files in `src/`:

```typescript
// Example: src/Commands/MyCommand.ts
import { Command } from '@h3ravel/musket';

export class MyCommand extends Command {
  protected signature = 'my-command';
  protected description = 'My new command';

  async handle() {
    this.info('Hello, Ghit!');
  }
}
```

### 7. Test Changes

```bash
# Run in development
pnpm runner my-command

# Run tests
pnpm test

# Lint code
pnpm lint
```

### 8. Commit Changes

Use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/):

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "feat: add my-command"
```

Commit types:

- `feat:` - New feature
- `fix:` - Bug fix
- `docs:` - Documentation
- `style:` - Formatting
- `refactor:` - Code refactoring
- `test:` - Tests
- `chore:` - Maintenance

**Examples:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add bulk delete for pull requests"
git commit -m "fix: resolve authentication timeout issue"
git commit -m "docs: update installation instructions"
git commit -m "refactor: simplify issue parsing logic"
```

### 9. Push Changes

```bash
git push origin feature/my-feature
```

### 10. Create Pull Request

Go to GitHub and click "Compare & pull request"

**PR Template:**

```markdown
## Description

Brief description of changes

## Type of Change

- [ ] Bug fix
- [ ] New feature
- [ ] Breaking change
- [ ] Documentation update

## Testing

How was this tested?

## Checklist

- [ ] Code follows project style
- [ ] Tests pass
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or documented)
```

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style

#### TypeScript

Use strict typing:

```typescript
// Good
function getIssue(number: number): Promise<IIssue> {
  return octokit.rest.issues.get({ number });
}

// Avoid
function getIssue(number: any): any {
  return octokit.rest.issues.get({ number });
}
```

#### Naming Conventions

```typescript
// Classes: PascalCase
class IssuesCommand extends Command {}

// Functions/Variables: camelCase
function parseIssue(data: any) {}
const issueNumber = 42;

// Constants: UPPER_SNAKE_CASE
const MAX_RETRIES = 3;

// Interfaces: PascalCase with I prefix
interface IUser {
  name: string;
  email: string;
}
```

#### File Structure

```typescript
// Imports first
import { Command } from '@h3ravel/musket';
import { useOctokit } from '../hooks';
import type { IIssue } from '../Contracts/Interfaces';

// Class/function definition
export class MyCommand extends Command {
  // Class implementation
}

// No default export for classes
// Use named exports
```

### Error Handling

Always handle errors gracefully:

```typescript
import { promiseWrapper } from '../helpers';

const [err, result] = await promiseWrapper(
  octokit.rest.issues.create({
    /* ... */
  }),
);

if (err) {
  this.error(`Failed to create issue: ${err.message}`);
  return;
}

this.success(`Issue #${result.data.number} created`);
```

### User Feedback

Provide clear feedback:

```typescript
// Use spinners for operations
const spinner = this.spinner('Creating issue...').start();

try {
  await createIssue();
  spinner.succeed('Issue created successfully');
} catch (error) {
  spinner.fail('Failed to create issue');
  this.error(error.message);
}

// Use appropriate log levels
this.info('Information message');
this.success('Success message');
this.warn('Warning message');
this.error('Error message');
```

### Testing

Write tests for new features:

```typescript
// tests/my-feature.spec.ts
import { describe, it, expect } from 'vitest';
import { myFunction } from '../src/my-feature';

describe('myFunction', () => {
  it('should return expected result', () => {
    const result = myFunction('input');
    expect(result).toBe('expected');
  });

  it('should handle edge cases', () => {
    expect(myFunction('')).toBe('');
    expect(myFunction(null)).toBeUndefined();
  });
});
```

### Documentation

Document all public APIs:

```typescript
/**
 * Creates an issue in the specified repository.
 *
 * @param owner - Repository owner
 * @param repo - Repository name
 * @param title - Issue title
 * @param body - Issue description
 * @returns Created issue object
 * @throws {Error} If authentication fails
 */
async function createIssue(
  owner: string,
  repo: string,
  title: string,
  body?: string,
): Promise<IIssue> {
  // Implementation
}
```

## Pull Request Guidelines

### Before Submitting

Checklist:

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] All tests pass: `pnpm test`
- [ ] Lint passes: `pnpm lint`
- [ ] Build succeeds: `pnpm build`
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] Commit messages follow conventions
- [ ] Branch is up to date with main

### PR Description

Include:

1. **What** - What does this PR do?
2. **Why** - Why is this change needed?
3. **How** - How does it work?
4. **Testing** - How was it tested?
5. **Screenshots** - If UI changes

### Review Process

1. **Automated Checks** - CI runs tests and linting
2. **Code Review** - Maintainer reviews code
3. **Feedback** - Address review comments
4. **Approval** - PR approved for merge
5. **Merge** - Squash and merge to main

### After Merge

Your contribution will be:

- Included in next release
- Listed in changelog
- Credited in release notes

## First Time Contributors

New to open source? Look for issues labeled:

- `good first issue` - Easy entry points
- `help wanted` - Contributions welcome
- `documentation` - Docs improvements

Don't hesitate to ask questions!

## Getting Help

### Questions

- Open a [Discussion](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/discussions)
- Ask in [Issues](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/issues)

### Stuck?

- Review [Development Guide](/guide/development)
- Check existing [Pull Requests](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/pulls)
- Read [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/rest)

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the ISC License.

## Recognition

Contributors are recognized:

- In release notes
- In changelog
- On GitHub contributors page

Thank you for contributing to Ghit! 🎉

## Next Steps

- [Development Guide](/guide/development) - Set up development environment
- [Commands](/guide/commands) - Learn command structure
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/toneflix/ghit/issues) - Find issues to work on
